Mantis shrimps are also known as Stomatopods.
Some species of mantis shrimps have specialised calcified "clubs" which can strike with great power.
Some species of mantis shrimps have sharp forelimbs used to capture prey.
Mantis shrimp's are in the Malacostraca class.
The largest mantis shrimp ever caught had a length of 46 cm and was caught in the Indian River near Fort Pierce, Florida.
A mantis shrimp's shell (also known as it's carapace) covers only the rear part of the head and the first four segments of the thorax.
There are more than 450 species of mantis shrimps.
Mantis shrimps are among the most important predators in many shallow, tropical, and sub-tropical marine habitats.
Around 400 species of mantis shrimp have currently been discovered worldwide; all living species are in the suborder Unipeltata.
Mantis shrimps spend most of their time hiding in rock formations or burrowing intricate passageways in the sea bed.
Unlike most crustaceans, mantis shrimps sometimes hunt, chase, and kill prey.
Although some mantis shrimps live in temperate seas, most species live in tropical and subtropical waters in the Indian and Pacific Oceans between eastern Africa and Hawaii. 
Mantis shrimp are commonly separated into two distinct groups determined by the type of claw they possess: Smashers and Spearers
The eyes of the mantis shrimp are mounted on mobile stalks and can move independently of each other.
Mantis shrimps are thought to have the most complex eyes in the animal kingdom and have the most complex visual system ever discovered.
Compared to the three types of photoreceptor cells that humans possess in their eyes, the eyes of a mantis shrimp have between 12 and 16 types of photoreceptors cells.
Each compound eye of the mantis shrimp is made up of up tens of thousands ommatidia, clusters of photoreceptor cells.
Each eye of the mantis shrimp consists of two flattened hemispheres separated by parallel rows of specialised ommatidia, collectively called the midband.
Mantis shrimps punch at the same speed as an 22MM bullet.
